Inline function is a function that is expanded in line when it is called. When the inline function is called whole code of the inline function gets inserted or substituted at the point of inline function call. This substitution is performed by the C++ compiler at compile time. Inline function increases efficiency.
Syntax:

```c++
inline return-type function-name(parameters) {
  // function code
}
```

Usage:

```c++
inline int cube(int n) { return n * n * n; }

int main() {
  int x = cube(3);
  cout << x;
  return 0;
}
```

Advantages:

- Function call overhead doesn’t occur.
- It also saves the overhead of push/pop variables on the stack when function is called.
- It also saves overhead of a return call from a function.
- When you inline a function, you may enable compiler to perform context specific optimization on the body of function. Such optimizations are not possible for normal function calls. Other optimizations can be obtained by considering the flows of calling context and the called context.
- Inline function may be useful (if it is small) for embedded systems because inline can yield less code than the function call preamble and return.

Disadvantages:

- If you use too many inline functions then the size of the binary executable file will be large, because of the duplication of same code.
- Too much inlining can also reduce your instruction cache hit rate, thus reducing the speed of instruction fetch from that of cache memory to that of primary memory.
- Inline function may increase compile time overhead if someone changes the code inside the inline function then all the calling location has to be recompiled because compiler would require to replace all the code once again to reflect the changes, otherwise it will continue with old functionality.
- Inline functions may not be useful for many embedded systems. Because in embedded systems code size is more important than speed.
- Inline functions might cause thrashing because inlining might increase size of the binary executable file. Thrashing in memory causes performance of computer to degrade.
